mind your decisions I'm pressure Walker
a sequence starts with the number 1 and
each subsequent term is multiplied by
the common ratio a until the final term
of a to the power of n for n a positive
even integer we're going to define two
variables X is equal to the median of
the sequence and y is equal to a to the
power of n over 2 which of the following
statements is always true X is greater
than Y X is less than Y X is equal to Y
or none of the above
this problem is adapted from the 1996
SAT exam pause the video if you'd like
to give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching to learn how
to solve this problem
[Music]
we can start analyzing this problem by
considering specific values suppose n is
equal to 4
in that case y is equal to a to the
power of 2 what is X equal to let's
consider a specific value like a is
equal to 3 we substitute that in
calculate that y is equal to 9 then we
calculate the median the median will be
the middle value of the sequence which
is equal to 9 that's exactly in the
middle therefore X is equal to 9 and X
is exactly equal to Y let's do another
example let's again consider N is equal
to 4 so that Y is equal to a squared now
let's consider a is equal to 1/2 when we
substitute in we get a decreasing
sequence so calculate the median we'll
put it in ascending order here we have
the median is exactly equal to the
middle value which is 1 over 4 and
that's exactly equal to Y therefore
again X is equal to Y from these
particular examples one might conclude
that X is always equal to Y well this is
actually true if a is positive in that
case the sequence is either increasing
or decreasing and the median will be a
to the power of n over 2 which is
exactly equal to Y therefore X is always
equal to Y if a is greater than 0
the official answer to this problem did
say that X is equal to Y however it's an
incomplete answer it is not the correct
answer a 17-year old Colin Rizzio
figured out the correct answer should be
none of the above
and it made big waves across the media
at the time let's see why none of the
above is the correct answer
well again consider that n is equal to 4
so we get Y is equal to a squared now we
consider a negative value for a let's
say a is equal to negative 3 if we
substitute that in we get an alternating
sequence Y is equal to 9 what's the
median value what's the middle value of
this sequence to calculate the median
we'll arrange the sequence in ascending
order we can now see the middle value is
equal to 1 and X is equal to 1 therefore
X is less than Y so we'll put this
particular case together with the other
case that X was equal to Y for a
positive value of a putting these
observations together we can solve the
question which of the following
statements is always true well can we
say that X is always greater than Y no
we can't because sometimes it's less and
Y and sometimes it's equal to Y again we
can't say that X is always less than Y
because sometimes it's equal to Y and we
can't say X is always equal to I because
sometimes it's less than Y therefore all
of these are false and the correct
answer is none of the above the moral of
the story is you should not blindly
accept the official answer it's best to
do your own analysis and mind your
decision
thanks are making mind your decision one
of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]